# Day 2 - January 31, 2026

## 🎯 Today's Goal
Explore more about mods for symposium project as recommended by Niko Matsakis ([zulip](https://symposium-dev.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/530148-general/topic/Excited.20to.20contribute.20to.20Symposium!/near/571090654))

---
## Niko's Ideas for mods.
- Niko has this idea of a 'RAG' mod which you can point it at groups of markdown docs, and it can skim those, build an index, then watch the user's prompts go by and look for opportunities to insert references to content.
- There is this high value feature that is required:
  . We need a "MCP adapter" (more hacking on symposium itself). The idea here would be to extend our notion of agent mods also include MCP servers. ''' It'd be good to extend the recommendation format with an option kind: '''
  ``` 
      [[recommendation]]
      kind = "mcp" # defaults to "proxy"
      source.cargo = "foo" # same as today
  ```
  We would then extend symposium-acp-agentso that it has a new command, mcp-proxy.
  When we resolve the recommendation we would convert it to ```$EXECUTABLE mcp-proxy ...``` where the ```...``` is the details of where to find the MCP server.
---

## ✅ What I Did

### 1. Study the symposium mods documentation ([mods](https://symposium.dev/about-mods.html#mods-you-might-already-know))
- Wrote what I understood about mods in ([contribution/symposium](../../../projects/contributions/symposium/mods.md)) 
- Created illustrations for what I learnt about how mods operates as 'middleware' between an agent and editor. Used openboard and my house wall 🤣🤣...
- Explored how Ferris, Cargo, and Sparkle mods are implemented
- Tried to understand why the CI is failing ([ci test](https://github.com/symposium-dev/symposium/actions/runs/21535337251/job/62064728157?pr=120))
---
- Explore how to implement niko's ideas for mods. 
---

---

## 💡 What I Learned

### Technical
- ** Mods:** A way for the prompt to be enriched before the editor sees it, and the response to be improved before it appears to the editor.
- Mods improves by:
    - **Injecting context:** mod adding more information to the prompt before the agent sees it.
    - **Providing tools:** giving the agent super powers, such as fetching rust crates & sources, and cargo tests & build.
    - **Transforming output:** modifying the output before it appears in the editor to improve the quality of the code generated by the agent.

### About Myself
- I'm a fast learner, I understood what mods are supposed to do and now I'm able to visualize them in my head and contemplate how to create one, after a few hours of serious research.

### Non-Technical
- I can ask any issues or questions or concerns I have about mods to the creator for clarification.
- Niko has ideas around several ideas about mods, so the current implementation can change.

## 🤔 Challenges & Struggles
- Still not 100% confortable with the mental model around mods which is a different from the MCP.
- Can't help but wonder, Are these mods opt-in by default, or I subscribe to the mods that are relevant to the project I'm doing.?
- Can't we have base mods that are provided by symposium which will provide great results even without incorporating other mods.
- What about having mods marketplace or are they going to be through crates.io?
- What happens when Agent returns response with broken apis, will the mod change the response or will the broken result appear in the editor.?
